---
title: APH course
description: Requirements for finishing the NI-APH course
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Lectures from '@site/docs/courses/aph_lectures.tsx'


## Requirements for successful course completion:
1. Submit a game mechanics concept.
2. Present your progress.
3. Submit the semester project.
4. Pass an oral examination.
5. Acquire at least 50 points throughout the semester.

## Slides
<Lectures />

## Important Dates
- 11/5 - Finalize project requirements.
- 11/21 and 11/28 - Progress presentations.
- 12/19 - minitest during the last lecture
- 1/11 - Deadline for submitting semester projects.
- 2/18 - End of the semester (all points must be earned by then).

## Grading
- **Semester Project**: 60 points, minimum 30 required.
- **Exam**: 30 points, minimum 15 required.
- **Minitest**: 10 points (ABCD answers), no minimum requirement, attendance not mandatory.
- Quiz: a maximum of 10 points (2 points for the top 3 scores, 1 point otherwise).
  - The quiz will be randomly held during lectures.
  - Questions will cover material from previous lectures.
- Technical blog article: 10 points (in CZ, EN, or both), optional.
- Bonus points if your semester project runs on the ggBlaster arcade - 10 points.

### Rewards
- For 95 points and above - APH swag (t-shirt, mug, etc.).

### Penalties
- **-5 points** - late submission of project requirements beyond November 5th.
- **-20 points** - late submission of semester project beyond January 11th.
- **-10 points** - unexcused absence during progress presentations.

## Semester Project
### Requirements
- The game must run on the web.
- Students must work on the game individually or in pairs.
- The game concept must be approved by the instructor (during the "Finalization of Project Requirements" phase).
- Game assets must be taken from the Public Domain (including assets generated by AI).
- The game must include at least one non-trivial **technical** mechanic.
- The game can be developed using a game engine or graphic library. For educational purposes, the COLFIO library was created [COLFIO](https://colf.io/).
- In the case of using the COLFIO library (or an engine with ECS architecture), the game must fully utilize the ECS pattern (Entity-Component-System).

### Assignment
- must be submit until 5.11. to the lecturer on Discord
- the assignment should have the following structure:
  - whether you will be working on the game alone or in a pair of two
  - game genre
  - library/engine
  - space, objects, actions, rules, game objective (as described in <a href={useBaseUrl('slides/lecture01.html#24')} target="_blank">slides</a>)
  - the main mechanic, or a technical challenge

#### Assignment - Recommendations
- if the game assignment cannot fit into the structure above, you have too complex assignment
  - usually, 5-10 objects, 2-5 actions, and 5-10 rules are sufficient
  - start with must-have elements without which the game wouldn't make sense
- visuals and the story do not belong in the assignment; they can be developed during prototyping
- the scope should be as small as possible, with an emphasis on technical implementation
- if the game includes levels, 2-3 polished levels with increasing difficulty (if appropriate for the game) are enough
  - it is a good thing for the game to be understandable without a README or manual. The best option is an in-game tutorial
  - the library/engine used can be changed during prototyping, but this should be communicated with the instructor
  - if it turns out that some objects/actions/rules no longer make sense during prototyping, there is no need to force them into the game.

#### Assignment - Example
From the game [Chicken Quest](https://gallery.aphgames.io/2021/chickenquest/)
- Genre: Casual sports
- Library: COLF.IO
- Space: 2D, sidescroller
- Objects: Animated player, power-ups, coins, traps, boost platforms
- Actions:
  - Shooting the player into the air
  - Controlling the player during flight
  - Mid-air boost
  - Collecting coins and power-ups
  - Activating items in the inventory
  - Purchasing upgrades between rounds
- Rules:
  - The player can choose the angle and power of the avatar's shot.
  - The round ends when the player lands on the ground and loses all speed.
  - The player receives in-game currency as a reward, which can be used to buy upgrades.
  - Coins, traps, and power-ups are randomly placed throughout the level and activate upon collision with the player.
- Game Objective:
  - Reach a predetermined distance.
- Main Mechanic:
  - Player physics after the shot.

### Technical Game Mechanics
- Must involve a mechanic that is non-trivial from a programming perspective.
- Examples include
  - Replay mechani in the game [Braid](https://store.steampowered.com/app/26800/Braid/)
  - Climbing on a rope
  - Procedurally generated objects
  - Guiding wind
  - Hierarchical loot


### Additional Requirements
- Create the game on the faculty's [GitLab](https://gitlab.fit.cvut.cz) with the name `NI-APH`, accessible via `gitlab.fit.cvut.cz/<username>/NI-APH`.
- In addition to the game itself, the repository should include:
  - README with a brief description of the game and installation instructions.
  - Architecture diagram (as a PNG/JPG image).
  - **Clear and regular commits**.
  - Author's name in `package.json`, if using JavaScript/TypeScript, or in other manifest files.
  - Author's name in the license file.
- The game must have a title displayed in both the HTML header and the game itself.
- The repository should not contain any redundant data (especially `node_modules`, `.unitypackage`, `Obj/`, `Temp/`, etc.). Use `.gitignore`.


### COLF.IO
- Originally ECSLite and previously APHLib.
- [Library](https://colf.io) created for the study and teaching of component-based architecture.
- It is an extension of the PixiJS graphics library, adding a component architecture following the ECS pattern.
- It is available as an external npm package `colfio` or as a boilerplate project [ecs-template](https://github.com/APHGames/ecs-template).

### ggBlaster
- If the game runs on **ggBlaster**, it is possible to earn up to 10 bonus points.
- To have your semester project run on the arcade machine `ggBlaster`, it must meet the following requirements:
  - The game is controlled only by the keyboard, mapped to the arcade machine's buttons.
    - The arcade machine includes a joystick (4 positions) and 8 game buttons for each of the two players, as well as two additional functional buttons (e.g., menu/back).
  - The game is designed for two players.
  - The style and genre match the arcade gaming style (e.g., adventure games are not suitable).
  - The game is optimized for a resolution of 720x576 and 50 frames per second.
  - The game runs smoothly on Raspberry 4 (overclocked to 1800 MHz), using the Chromium browser platform.

## Oral Examination
- There will be no fixed date for the oral examination; it will be conducted individually based on students' availability in room TH-A:1455 in January and February.
- The examination will involve discussions on various topics from the lectures, especially those marked with orange and red lightbulbs in the slides.

## Evaluation table
- according to the Study and Examination Rules for Students of CTU

| Grande | Range | Meaning |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| A | 90+ | excellent |
| B | 80-89 | very good |
| C | 70-79 | good |
| D | 60-69 | fine |
| E | 50-59 | satisfactory |
| F | 0-49 | unsatisfactory |